GRAM Player Reference If you have this sheet, a character, and a twenty-sided die, you have everything you need!

Character Concept Character Concept has two parts, the Plot Hook and Character Qualities. Plot Hook outlines a long-term objective and completing the Main Objective while satisfying the Major Complications awards the player with an additional starting Overdrive Card and a new Plot Hook. Character Qualities can be used by a player as justification to gain a bonus such as +2 to a related roll, drawing an extra card in a Competition, knowledge or understanding of something related, or an Overdrive Card if adhering to the quality pgram yourself or the Party in danger. Disregarding a Character Quality can result in a -2 to a related roll, discarding a card in a Competition, or the loss of an Overdrive Card if the action would move you further from completing your Plot Hook.

Attributes Attribute Score (Attribute Modifier). For Attribute Scores, 5 is average. Attribute Modifiers measure the distance from the average.
Body: Use Body Modifier for melee Attack Checks and checks involving physical power or stamina.
Agility: Use Agility Modifier for ranged Attack Checks and checks involving speed and finesse.
Intellect: Use Intellect Modifier for checks involving puzzle-solving and use of logic. Primary Attribute for Arcane Magic.
Guile: Use Guile Modifier for checks involving awareness and influence. Primary Attribute for Divine Magic and Psionics.

Actions On each round, turn order is established from highest result to lowest Initiative Check result. On your turn, you can take 2 Actions. Line of Sight and Line of Effect - To affect a target, you must target them. To target via Line of Sight, you must be able to draw a line from your space to your target’s space without being interrupted by walls, major obstacles, or hostile characters. You can draw through friendly characters. To target via Line of Effect, you can draw through hostile characters and most obstacles as well. Range and Range Increment - If Ability or Attack or weapon lists a Range, your target must be within that many spaces or your attempt automatically fails. If a Range Increment is listed instead, you can attack a target within that range normally, or a target up to double that many spaces away, but suffer a -2 penalty to the check. Any attacks beyond double the Range Increment automatically fail.
Anticipate: For 2 Actions, set a “trigger condition” such as when something moves into sight or being attacked. Then set a “response” that costs 1 Action or less, such as Attack or Move. You do not act on your turn, but if the trigger condition occurs before your next turn, you may act immediately and interrupt. If your trigger condition does not occur, you do not get to act.
Assist: For 2 Actions, when an adjacent character is making an Attack Check or Skill Check, you make the same check against TN 10. If you are successful, confer a +2 bonus to the character’s check, +4 if you scored a Critical Hit or Critical Success. Multiple characters may Assist the same target, but you cannot Assist a character who is Assisting another character.
Attack: For 1 Action, designate a weapon and make an Attack Check against an eligible target with that weapon, which is resisted with a Defense Check.
Concentrate: For 1 or 2 Actions, continue an action that you previously started that costs more Actions than you had available, adding your Actions spent here to the total. If you’ve paid the Action cost in full, the action now happens, otherwise continue to Concentrate. If you are forced to stop this action, your original action is cancelled with no effect.
Guard: For 2 Actions, defend yourself and gain a +4 bonus to any Defense Checks you make until your next turn.
Hold: For a Free Action, change your Initiative Check result to a lower number of your choosing. You keep this result until your next Initiative Check. Alternatively, you may spend 2 Actions to use this action and do nothing else on your turn, in which case your Initiative Check result is increased by +10 until your next Initiative Check.
Move: For 1 Action, move a number of spaces equal to your Movement. This can be through spaces occupied by friendly characters, but not hostile characters, and you cannot end your move in a space occupied by any other character. If you are moving diagonally, every other space costs double. If you are taking an Action after this, you may split your movement between before and after the Action.
Rally: For 2 Actions, choose one of your Health Guages and remove 2 damage from that track. If you are Covered, remove 2 additional damage per stack.
Reposition: For 1 Action, gain or lose the Low Profile status. If you are taking the Move action this turn, you may do this as a Free Action, but you move 2 less spaces.
Surround: As a Free action, if you and a friendly character are both adjacent to a character and have melee weapons or attacks readied, that target is Flanked (2). Alternatively, if you and a friendly character have both targeted the same character with ranged weapons or attacks and are both within your first Range Increments, the target is Flanked.
Take Cover: For 1 Action, hide behind cover such as a corner of a wall or an obstacle such as a low barrier. You are Covered if partially obscured, Covered (2) if mostly obscured. This status remains until you move from your current space or make an Attack Check or take an action requiring you to draw Line of Sight.

Overdrive Gain your Starting Overdrive in cards at the start of each Session. Gain additional through play, lose by spending on the following options. Players can have 3 at a time max, GM can have 2 + # of Players. All Overdrive not spent at the end of a Session is lost.
Catch Your Breath: For 2 Actions, you may spend Overdrive Cards to remove an amount of damage from a Health Gauge equal to the lowest Attribute Score used to determine that track per card spent.
Execute A Stratagem: For 2 Actions, you may describe a special move. If the GM approves of it, spend Overdrive Cards to target a character and inflict a status upon them, remove a status they currently have or deny them from using one ability/piece of equipment. Lasts 1 round per Overdrive Card spent. Alternatively, you may move them one space per Overdrive Card.
Exploit A Weakness: When dealing damage to a target, you may spend Overdrive Cards to deal an additional 3 damage to the same Health Gauge per Overdrive Card spent. If you are inflicting a Stackable status, inflict an additional stack per Overdrive Card spent.
Hurry Up: During your turn you may spend 1 Overdrive Card to gain 1 Action that must be used immediately.
Press Your Luck: Before an outcome is resolved, you may spend 1 Overdrive Card to change your opponent’s result. If the outcome is determined by a die, your opponent must re-roll their result, as long as they did not score a Critical Hit or Critical Success. They keep the second result, even if it is better. If the outcome is determined by a card, your opponent discards their card and takes the top card of the draw deck, as long as they did not play an ace. They must keep the second card, even if it is better.
Push Your Limits: Before an outcome is resolved, you may spend Overdrive Cards to enhance your result. If the outcome is determined by a die, you re-roll an additional die and add its result as a bonus to your total. If the outcome is determined by a card, you draw and play the top card of the draw deck, and compare that to your opponent’s card as well.
Shake It Off: For 2 Actions, you may spend 1 Overdrive Card to remove one non-Persistent status. If the card is a heart, you only need to spend 1 Action.
Tap Into Your Reserves: As a Free Action, you may discard Overdrive Cards to gain 1 resource “Point” you normally have access to per Overdrive Card spent, such as a Mana Point or Damned Point. These points may take you above your normal capacity, but are spent first and are lost at the end of the current Scene if not used.
Trust Your Gut: For 2 Actions, you may spend 1 Overdrive Card to ask the GM a relevant question or ask for a hint about the current Scene or Encounter. The GM must answer honestly, or discard one Overdrive Card of their choice to ignore you.


Statuses If a duration is not indicated, a status lasts until the end of the current Scene before fading away. Lingering: Fades away 1 stack at a time. Persistent: Does not fade away. Stackable: Multiple copies stack and are cumulative. Stacks are denoted in parentheses.
Aggro’d: You suffer a -2 penalty to all Attack Checks and Skill Checks you make that do not include the character that inflicted this status upon you and if you are in a Competition with the character that inflicted this status upon you, you must reveal your cards first.
Altered: You apply the indicated modifier to all checks you make with the indicated Attribute and the number of cards you draw in a Competition are adjusted by the same amount. Stackable.
Blinded: You are considered to be affected by Heavy Concealment and your Movement is reduced by half, rounded down. You may make Defense and Resist Checks normally, but suffer a -2 penalty.
Charmed: You cannot target the character who inflicted this status upon you with any checks or a Competition, and they gain a +5 bonus to any checks they make that target you. Any damage you suffer removes this effect.
Covered: You gain a +2 bonus to checks you make against actions that target you and require Line of Sight and you gain an additional +1 bonus to all Agility Resist Checks you make. Stackable.
Dazed: You cannot spend any Actions or play any cards in a Competition but you may make Defense Checks and Resist Checks normally.
Dead: You cannot spend any Actions or play any cards in a Competition and automatically fail all Defense Checks and Resist Checks you are required to make. You cannot gain any other statuses while this one is active. Your corpse can be moved like an object, but any further Trauma destroys it. Persistent.
Diminished: You suffer a -2 penalty to all Attack Checks and Skill Checks prompted by or benefiting from one category of abilities, as indicated by the originating effect. Stackable.
Disinterested: You suffer a -2 penalty to any Attack Checks and Skill Checks you make that include the character who inflicted this status on you and draw 2 less cards in Competitions against them.
Ditzy: You temporarily lose 1 ability of your choosing. Stackable.
Divinity: You store theistic energy, which you can sacrifice to enhance your Divine Abilities. Lingering, Stackable.
Dying: You cannot spend any Actions or play any cards in a Competition, but you may make Defense Checks and Resist Checks normally. Further Trauma replaces Dying with Dead. Any effect that removes damage from your Trauma Gauge removes this status.
Elevated: You gain a +2 bonus to all Attack Checks and Skill Checks prompted by or benefiting from one category of abilities, as indicated by the originating effect. Stackable.
Enraged: You gain a +2 bonus to melee Attack Checks, melee damage, all Body Skill Checks, and draw 2 additional cards in Body-based Competitions, but you cannot make any ranged Attack Checks, any checks that do not use your Body Attribute, nor participate in a non-Body-based Competition. You cannot gain the Hesitant status while you are Enraged.
Flanked: You suffer a -1 penalty to all Attack Checks and Defense Checks against the characters who inflicted this status upon you. Stackable.
Hesitant: You can only take actions that do not require a check of any kind and you may not play any cards in a Competition. You may make Defense Checks and Resist Checks normally.
Incapacitated: You cannot spend any Actions or participate in any Competitions and you automatically fail any Defense Checks and Resist Checks you are required to make. Persistent.
Intangible: Any checks you make or Competitions you initiate that target a character, or checks made or Competitions initiated by other characters that target you fail unless the other character is also Intangible as well. You may move through walls and obstacles at normal Movement.
Lively: Calculate your indicated Health Gauge as if one of your Attributes was 2 higher. Stackable.
Low Profile: Your Movement is reduced by half, rounded down, but you gain a +2 bonus to Defense Checks.
Psyched: You gain a +2 bonus to the next Attack Check or Skill Check you make or draw one more card the next time you draw in a Competition.
Refreshed: You remove 1 damage from the indicated Health Gauge at the end of your turn. Stackable.
Rooted: You cannot take any actions that move you from your current space, but you can be moved from your space by effects. You may make Defense Checks and Resist Checks normally, but suffer a -4 penalty to Agility Resist Checks.
Savvy: You gain 1 Honorary Ability. Stackable.
Shocked: You have 1 less Action to spend on your turn, but you may make Defense Checks and Resist Checks normally. You suffer a -4 penalty to all checks that use Intellect or Guile, including Initiative Checks (and current Initiative Check results). You also temporarily lose two abilities of your choosing. If your Stress Gauge is full, further Stress replaces Shocked with Incapacitated and any effect that removes damage from your Stress Gauge removes this status.
Sickly: Calculate your indicated Health Gauge as if one of your Attributes was 2 lower. Stackable.
Slowed: Your Movement is reduced by 2. Stackable.
Spooked: You cannot gain or spend Overdrive Cards.
Spry: Your Movement is increased by 2. Stackable.
Stealthed: Characters cannot establish Line of Sight to you, nor target you with a Competition. You lose this status if you take an action that requires you to make a check, if you initiate a Competition, or if you move more than half your Movement, rounded down, in a round.
Stunned: You have 1 less Action to spend on your turn, but you may make Defense Checks and Resist Checks normally. You suffer a -4 penalty to all checks that use Body or Agility, including Attack Checks and Defense Checks. Your Movement is reduced by 2. If your Fatigue Gauge is full, any further Fatigue replaces Stunned with Incapacitated and any effect that removes damage from the Fatigue Gauge removes this status.
Suppressed: You lose access to one category of Abilities, as indicated by the originating effect. Stackable.
Unfocused: You suffer a -2 penalty to the next Attack Check or Skill Check you make or draw one less card the next time you draw in a Competition.
Vulnerable: You suffer a -2 penalty to Defense Checks and Resist Checks. Stackable.
Warded: You gain a +2 bonus to Defense Checks and Resist Checks. Stackable.
Wounded: You take 1 damage to the indicated Health Gauge at the end of your turn that ignores any Damage Absorption. Stackable. Any effect that removes the inflicted type of damage removes this status.

Player Reference Back, linked from Player Reference Master.
